README.MD, before:

[![Maintained by Bridgecrew.io](https://img.shields.io/badge/maintained%20by-bridgecrew.io-blueviolet)](https://bridgecrew.io)
[![code_coverage](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/bridgecrewio/AirIAM/master/coverage.svg?sanitize=true)](https://github.com/bridgecrewio/AirIAM/actions?query=workflow%3Acoverage)
![Terraform Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/tf-%3E%3D0.12.0-blue.svg)
![build](https://github.com/bridgecrewio/AirIAM/workflows/build-and-test/badge.svg)

# AirIAM
Automating, simplifying and least-privilege-ing complex existing AWS IAM resource mesh with terraform (IaC) 

![Airiam](https://www.syfy.com/sites/syfy/files/styles/2280x1280/public/2019/03/airiam_star_trek_disco1_header.jpg)
> Airiam was a female cyberneticly enhanced Human serving as an officer in the Federation Starfleet in the 23rd century until her death in 2257.

AirIAM migrates an existing account's AWS IAM configurations into terraform, allowing easier access 
management, enabling review process and rolling back bad configurations easily.
While at it, AirIAM also reduces unused permissions to make sure the environment is adherent
to the least-privilege principal.

Commit message:

Focus on human users and create terraform template

README.MD, after:

[![Maintained by Bridgecrew.io](https://img.shields.io/badge/maintained%20by-bridgecrew.io-blueviolet)](https://bridgecrew.io)
[![code_coverage](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/bridgecrewio/AirIAM/master/coverage.svg?sanitize=true)](https://github.com/bridgecrewio/AirIAM/actions?query=workflow%3Abuild-and-test)
![Terraform Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/tf-%3E%3D0.12.0-blue.svg)
![build](https://github.com/bridgecrewio/AirIAM/workflows/build-and-test/badge.svg)

# AirIAM
Automating, simplifying and least-privilege-ing complex existing AWS IAM resource mesh with terraform (IaC) 

![Airiam](https://www.syfy.com/sites/syfy/files/styles/2280x1280/public/2019/03/airiam_star_trek_disco1_header.jpg)
> Airiam was a female cyberneticly enhanced Human serving as an officer in the Federation Starfleet in the 23rd century 
> until her death in 2257.

AirIAM migrates an existing account's AWS IAM configurations into terraform, allowing easier access 
management, enabling review process and rolling back bad configurations easily.
While at it, AirIAM also reduces unused permissions to make sure the environment is adherent
to the least-privilege principal.

 
 # Step 1 - Organizing employee's IAM users
 AirIAM identifies human users as users which used the console login. This means these IAM users both have a console 
 login profile **and** they used it to login to the console.
 It creates 3 different groups for these users:
 1. Admin group - for admin users.
 2. Powerusers group - users which are constantly accessing a closed set of write permissions.
 3. ReadOnly group - everyone else.
 
 In the output the powerusers group is empty, and users which are not admins will need to be manually elevated
 to the powerusers group.
